Create a Custom Actor
---------------------

This guide will demonstrate how to create a custom actor from scratch.

In this example, we will build a simple hello-world actor that says "Hello, World!".


Before diving in, let's make sure we have the following resources:

Prerequisites
-------------

Before getting started, you need to have the following:

- TACC training account
- Familiarity with working at the command line
- Have Docker installed on your laptop:


* Install Docker on your laptop:

  - `Mac <https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-mac/>`_
  - `Windows <https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/>`_
  - `Ubuntu <https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/>`_


Install the CLI
---------------


The Tapis CLI is available as a Python package. We highly recommend using
Python 3.7+ as the Python runtime behind the Tapis CLI.

Install with Pip
----------------

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip3 install tapis-cli

We’ll know Tapis CLI installed correctly when the ``tapis -h`` command returns some information about the application:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ tapis -h

   usage: tapis [--version] [-v | -q] [--log-file LOG_FILE] [-h] [--debug]

   Tapis CLI: Scripting interface to the Tapis platform. Documentation at
   https://tapis-cli.rtfd.io/. For support contact "TACC Help" <help@tacc.cloud>

   optional arguments:
    --version            show program's version number and exit
    -v, --verbose        Increase verbosity of output. Can be repeated.
    -q, --quiet          Suppress output except warnings and errors.
    --log-file LOG_FILE  Specify a file to log output. Disabled by default.
    -h, --help           Show help message and exit.
    --debug              Show tracebacks on errors.

   Commands:
    actors aliases create  Add an Alias for an Actor
    actors aliases delete  Delete an Actor Alias
    actors aliases list  List all Actor Aliases
    actors aliases show  Show details for an Actor Alias
    actors aliases update  Update an Alias to resolve to a different Actor
    actors create  Create an Actor
    actors delete  Delete an Actor
    ...



Components of an Actor
----------------------

Make a new directory and add the following files:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ mkdir hello-world-actor/ && cd hello-world-actor/

   $ touch Dockerfile requirements.txt actor.py

   $ tree ../hello-world-actor/
   hello-world-actor/
   ├── Dockerfile
   ├── requirements.txt
   └── actor.py

   0 directories, 3 files


Write the Actor Function
------------------------

The ``actor.py`` python script is where the code for your main function can
be found. An example of a functional actor that says "Hello, World!" is:

.. code-block:: python

   """Say Hello, World or the message received from user input"""
   from agavepy.actors import get_context

   # function to print the message
   def say_hello_world(m):
   """Print message from user if present, else echo "Hello, World"""
      if m == " ":
          print("Actor says: Hello, World")
      else:
          print("Actor received message: {}".format(m))

  def main():
  """Main entry to grab message context from user input"""
      context = get_context()
      message = context['raw_message']
      say_hello_world(message)

  if __name__ == '__main__':
      main()


This code makes use of the **agavepy** python library which we will install in
the Docker container. The library includes an "actors" object which is useful to
grab the message and other context from the environment. And, it can be used to
interact with other parts of the Tapis platform. Add the above code to your
``actor.py`` file.


Define Environment Variables
----------------------------

The ``secrets.json`` file may contain useful environment variables or
configurations to pass to the actor at creation time. These variables will be
part of the "context" taken from the environment, as in the example python
script above. For the purposes of this example, add the following definition to
``secrets.json``:

.. code-block:: json

   {
     "foo": "bar"
   }


Create a Dockerfile
-------------------

The only requirements are python and the agavepy python library, which is
available through
`PyPi <https://pypi.org/>`_.
A bare-bones Dockerfile needs to satisfy those dependencies, add the actor
python script, and set a default command to run the actor python script. Add
the following lines to your ``Dockerfile``:

.. code-block:: bash

   # pull base image
   FROM python:3.6

   # add requirements.txt to docker container
   ADD requirements.txt /requirements.txt

   # install requirements.txt
   RUN pip3 install -r /requirements.txt

   # add the python script to docker container
   ADD actor.py /actor.py

   # command to run the python script
   CMD ["python", "/actor.py"]

.. tip::

   Creating small Docker images is important for maintaining actor speed and
   efficiency

Build and Push the Dockerfile
-----------------------------

The Docker image must be pushed to a public repository in order for the actor
to use it. Use the following Docker commands in your local actor folder to build
and push to a repository that you have access to:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Build and tag the image
   $ docker build -t taccuser/hello-world:1.0 .
   Sending build context to Docker daemon  4.096kB
   Step 1/5 : FROM python:3.7-slim
   ...
   Successfully built b0a76425e8b3
   Successfully tagged taccuser/hello-world:1.0

   # Push the tagged image to Docker Hub
   $ docker push taccuser/hello-world:1.0
   The push refers to repository [docker.io/taccuser/word-count]
   ...
   1.0: digest: sha256:67cc6f6f00589d9ae83b99d779e4893a25e103d07e4f660c14d9a0ee06a9ddaf size: 1995
